Abstract - (to show on main website page) 
short paragraphs explaining:
what we’re researching and why
how we came up with our question
summary of the python stuff we used and analysis 
small conclusion on our findings

Suffice to say, music is in our lives in one form or another. On average, Americans spend more than 4.5 hours a day listening to music, with this figure increasing yearly (Nielsen, 2017). However, the way we interact with music has greatly changed over the years; from The Beatles to One Direction and from John Lennon to Justin Bieber. This project is aimed at exploring what made and still makes songs ‘popular’ in their time, enough for them to end up on the infamous American Billboard Hot 100 chart, and then to analyse and compare these seemingly subjective features in a data driven, reasoned way for definitive analysis. To make our research more specific, we have come up with the question ‘How have the audio features of US Billboard top 20 songs evolved over the past 50 years?’, which we have analysed using graphs made from Python. 

Lit Review - (drop down menu in Introduction section)
Explain in more detail what we’re researching and why, citing sources
how we came up with our Q in more detail


Aims & Objectives - (drop down menu in Introduction section)
Show a visualisation (like the one we had on our presentation slides) showing the outcomes of our research (a formula for future prediction, a tool to compare and contrast, an indicator of music preference through time) 

1.	Explore what made songs popular in their time and how this has evolved. 
By analysing the popular songs of each year we are able to analyse what makes these songs popular in a data driven way that looks at the songs themselves rather than supporting factors.

2.	Analyse and compare the composite factors of popular songs throughout the years and identify any trends. 
This is similar to our first aim, but with an added focus on the trends of popular songs which may be used to make thoughtful inferences on the society at the time as well as make simple predictions for popular songs in the immediate years. 
