How can we analyse the data?

The variables we can explore: 
- Duration (ms)
- Key (Spotify uses Pitch Class Notation, 0-11)
- Tempo (BPM)
- Time Signature (not available on data_spotify.csv. Measured 3-7 (over 4))
- Danceability (0-1, 1 being most danceable)
- Energy (0-1, 1 being most energetic)
- Instrumentalness (over 0.5 indicates instrumental songs, but the closer it is to one, the more confident it is that it is instrumental)
- Valence (0-1, lower = sad, higher = happy)

Not using 'mode' as it can be be unreliable, according to Spotify API documentation.

Clustering:
Either we use principal component analysis (PCA), confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) or exploratory factor analysis (EFA). 

From the research I did (references below), it seems that EFA is ideal for us because it includes the steps of check our assumptions (to see if we can even group the data!) and does not require us to already have an idea of what the cluster model would be, unlike CFA. If we find out that our variables are highly correlated, then I think we are gonna have to do PCA. 

References: https://support.sas.com/resources/papers/proceedings/proceedings/sugi30/203-30.pdf | https://www.researchgate.net/post/How-can-I-decide-between-using-principal-components-analysis-versus-factor-analysis

How do we know if the evolution/changes between decades/years is statistically significant?:
We would have to do an ANOVA/ANCOVA (I am not too sure rn which one... I'm thinking ANOVA) or a t-test (only if we have homogenous variances).

I am not sure if we want to a linear regression (simple or multivariate).

Whatever we do, we need to also do the correct assumptions test for them (eg: Shapiro Wilk, Levene's Test etc).

Looked into two different types of analyses: Descriptive analysis and Predictive Analysis. Descriptive is quite simple - similar to google analytics style.
Predictive analysis:
Looked into three different types: Naive Bayes (Gaussian type), Neural Network and Random Forest.
Naive Bayes works out the probability of B happening given A has happened. Could possibly use this as extra analysis e.g. Given tempo is high, what is the probability of another factor also being high. Tells us that factors can be grouped together when making a popular song. Although factors have to be independant.
Neural Network essentially is a predictive network. Once we give it the data, it should predict what a popular song should be. There is a process of weights and biases. We can use possibly attach weightings to the years (up until the most recent data) and then see if our neural network provides the output for the most recent data i.e. determining that using data of previous years you can then predict to an extent the next year.
Random Forest may be applicable but don't think it's worth analysing. 
References: 
https://towardsdatascience.com/end-to-end-python-framework-for-predictive-modeling-b8052bb96a78
https://towardsdatascience.com/naive-bayes-classifier-81d512f50a7c
https://medium.com/towards-artificial-intelligence/building-neural-networks-from-scratch-with-python-code-and-math-in-detail-i-536fae5d7bbf
https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-build-your-own-neural-network-from-scratch-in-python-68998a08e4f6
Couple references explain the coding of a neural network but may be worth using a video. Initial research claims it's not difficult to build a neural network (although it looks it). I've also asked a CS friend on his opinion on a neural network. Tried to attend Cindy's office hour but she wasn't there towards the end.
