Abstract - (to show on main website page) 
short paragraphs explaining:
what we’re researching and why
how we came up with our question
summary of the python stuff we used and analysis 
small conclusion on our findings

Suffice to say, music is in our lives in one form or another. On average, Americans spend more than 4.5 hours a day listening to music, with this figure increasing yearly (Nielsen, 2017). However, the way we interact with music has greatly changed over the years; from The Beatles to One Direction and from John Lennon to Justin Bieber. This project is aimed at exploring what made and still makes songs ‘popular’ in their time, enough for them to end up on the infamous American Billboard Hot 100 chart, and then to analyse and compare these seemingly subjective features in a data driven, reasoned way for definitive analysis. To make our research more specific, we have come up with the question ‘How have the audio features of US Billboard top 20 songs evolved over the past 50 years?’, which we have analysed using graphs made from Python. 

Lit Review - (drop down menu in Introduction section)
Explain in more detail what we’re researching and why, citing sources
how we came up with our Q in more detail

We are all aware that popular music has evolved through time, and that the number one hit song in 2019 sounds very different to the number one hit song in 1970. However, a very small amount of research has been done to metrically show how music has changed throughout the years and popular songs have often only been classified by genre. Current studies have also tried to address the lack of research in this niche, which can be seen in the article referenced, which mentions how evolution of music is characterised by the rise in pop songs (Lee Lin, 2012). The article does put effort into further analysing songs, such as analysing an audio feature such as beats per minute of a song. However, this type of research again lacks specific analysis of the composition of songs and their audio features. The research does not evaluate the specific changes songs have undergone over time and it ‘smooths’ out the evolution in order to simplify it. 

This is where our research comes in. We will help tackle this gap by providing a comprehensive analysis of the audio features that make up the Billboard top 20 songs across 50 years. These audio features are derived from Spotify itself, and include features such as, song length, danceability, energy, instrumentalness, acousticness, liveness, loudness, speechiness, tempo and time signature. By analysing these specific audio features, we will better understand what specifically makes a song popular, whether it is a mix of features or a leading feature, and the way they have evolved to form patterns throughout the years.


Aims & Objectives - (drop down menu in Introduction section)
Show a visualisation (like the one we had on our presentation slides) showing the outcomes of our research (a formula for future prediction, a tool to compare and contrast, an indicator of music preference through time) 

1.	Explore what made songs popular in their time and how this has evolved. 
By analysing the popular songs of each year we are able to analyse what makes these songs popular in a data driven way that looks at the songs themselves rather than supporting factors.

2.	Analyse and compare the composite factors of popular songs throughout the years and identify any trends. 
This is similar to our first aim, but with an added focus on the trends of popular songs which may be used to make thoughtful inferences on the society at the time as well as make simple predictions for popular songs in the immediate years. 
